# Coursera_GetData
Coursera Repo for Getting and Cleaning Data Course

### Files

This repo contains three files:

- Readme.md (this file)
- run_analysis.R (the R script submission)
- codebook.txt (description of the data generated by run_analysis script)
 
### Requires

- dplyr
- reshape2
 
### Assumption

- all the required input files (x_train, x_set, etc) already exists in the folder where the workspace is
- the variables kept contain the word "mean()" and "std()" in it

### How it Works

The run_analysis scripts follows the workflow outlined below:

1. Merge the two data sets (x_train and x_test). The data is loaded using read.table function, and the merge is performed using rbind function.
2. Features information is loaded to filter the data set by loading from the features file. In this exercise, it is assumed that the variables to be kept contains "mean()" or "std()". The function grep is used to select the desired variables.
3. After the variable information is loaded, the merged data sets are filtered based on the variables selected in step 2. At the same time, the variable names are stored in another, temporary data frame for later use.
4. Activity information is loaded from activity_labels file.
5. The activity data sets (y_train and y_test) are loaded next, and the activity information generated in step 4 is used to translate the data set into more descriptive names.
6. The variable names generated in step 3 are used to label each of the data in the merged data set generated in step 1.
7. Subject information is loaded from subject_train and subject_test files.
8. Subject and Activity information are appended into the merged data set generated in step 1 using cbind. The data set is then melt into longform of 4 variables: subject, activity, measured variable, and value.
9. Run group_by and summarize on the resulting data set in step 8, grouping by Subject and Activity, and get the average value of each variable

### How to Run

Call function run_analysis with no parameter. 
